fix: 660 rehaul writing code (#740)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/core-concepts/writing-code/workflows.md

## Programming widgets
[Widgets](/reference/widgets) are the building blocks of any Appsmith application. They're used to display information on the page and respond to user interactions.

When working with widgets in Appsmith, it's important to understand that Appsmith follows the reactive programming paradigm. This means that, instead of updating widget properties and states through direct variable assignment, widgets are connected and share data, so when one value is updated, any objects that depends on it also updates automatically.

For example, you have an [Input](/reference/widgets/input) widget where the user can enter text, and a [Button](/reference/widgets/button) widget with a label. You want to update the button's label based on the user's input. By using the reactive programming, the user types into the Input widget, and the label of the Button updates in real time to reflect the current user input. You can also check out the below video to understand how this works in a more visual way.

> <VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="34G1sCaRnvI" title="How to set properties in widgets?" caption="How to set properties in widgets?" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="34G1sCaRnvI" title="How to set properties in widgets dynamically" caption="How to set properties in widgets?" />
```

```javascript
// using imperative programming
Input1.disable();

//Or
Input1.enabled = false;
```
However, to achieve this in Appsmith, you can use [storeValue()](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions/store-value) function. You can set an indicator when the Edit button is clicked. Based on this indicator, the widgets can be configured to accept user input or can be set as read-only. You can also check out the below video to understand how this works in a more visual way.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="Nmf8ib2NzAQ" title="Controlling Widgets with code" caption="Controlling Widgets with code" />

The below example code shows how to set the indicator value and read the values from Appsmith store.

```javascript
// store editMode in Appsmith store.
{{storeValue('editMode', <BOOLEAN_VALUE>)}}`

// read the editMode value from Appsmith store. Bind it to the Disabled property of input widget
{{appsmith.store.editMode}}
```

With this configuration, the Input widget's behavior is dynamically linked to the `editMode` state stored in the Appsmith store.

### Fields

Widgets have fields/properties that you can use to bind data or trigger operations.

#### Sync fields

> Sync fields are fields/properties that expect input or data in the properties pane. These fields show the changed information that occurs due to triggered actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sync fields are properties that expect input or data in the properties pane. These fields can be programmed to show the updated information that occurs due to triggered operations.
```

For example, when you add an Input widget to the canvas, properties such as `Max Characters`, `Regex`, `Error Message`, and others expect input and are considered as Sync Fields.

#### Async fields

Async fields are properties that can trigger an action or perform an operation.

![Input Widget - Async Fields](</img/Writing_Code__Creating_Workflows__Async_Fields__Input_Widget.png>)

For example, the properties like `OnTextChanged` and `OnSubmit` of an input widget are considered async fields. You can use these properties to define an [action](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions) or perform and operation like [API or Query](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database#running-a-query) execution.

#### Async function data in a sync field
When working with data in Appsmith, it's important to understand how to use async functions in sync fields. Asynchronous functions can be a powerful tool, but they can also be a source of errors if not used correctly. For more information, see [How to use data from async functions in sync fields](/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/how-to-use-data-from-async-functions-in-sync-fields).

> #### Trigger Actions when event occurs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Trigger actions when event occurs
```

[Actions](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions) in Appsmith are predefined functions that provide a way to perform specific operations in response to user interactions or other events in your app. 

You can trigger actions by binding them to Events(Async fields). For example, you want to execute a query on a button click and show a success message after the query has been executed. You can bind [showAlert()](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions/show-alert) function on the `onSuccess` callback for `onClick()` event.

```javascript
{{saveData.run(() => showAlert("Data saved successfully."), () => {})}}
```

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="tjJIDkoCyQE" title="Global Functions" caption="Executing actions when event occurs"/> 

:::info
You can use **Actions** provided by the Appsmith framework only in  *Async fields**. 
:::

> #### Handle query success or error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Handle query success or error
```

description: >-
  Multiple Queries can be triggered in serial/parallel/conditional when a user
  interacts with a widget

toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 5
---

# Creating Workflows

> Appsmith lets you create dynamic and responsive web applications. It empowers developers to design user interfaces that adapt to user interactions on the fly and execute advanced operations like data retrieval, manipulation, and event triggering. Appsmith facilitates adding, configuring, and using widgets, queries, actions, JS Objects, and APIs. Additionally, it allows for more advanced functionalities such as parallel, serial, and conditional execution of queries.

Author: The line is already there - will modify it to add JavaScript Functions as shown below:
`Appsmith facilitates adding, configuring, and using widgets, queries, actions, JS Objects, JavaScript functions and APIs to build different workflows.`

## Programming widgets
Widgets are the building blocks of any Appsmith application. They're used to display information on the page and respond to user interactions. There are different types of [widgets](/reference/widgets) available in Appsmith.

> When working with widgets in Appsmith, it's important to understand how the app updates itself in response to changes in data. To reflect these changes, Appsmith follows the reactive programming paradigm. This means that, instead of updating widget properties and states through direct variable assignment, widgets are connected and share data, so when one value is updated, any objects that depends on it also updates automatically.

Author: The fields changed are for the sync and async fields that move to a how-to guide, and here the section is added for programming widgets. That's why it is showing the change. The only thing added is defining the reactive programming paradigm.

<img width="893" alt="Screenshot 2023-01-23 at 4 37 27 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99252011/214025039-00f68eda-ddbf-4472-b17e-1d4a7019bb40.png">

For example, you have an [Input](/reference/widgets/input) widget where the user can enter text, and a [Button](/reference/widgets/button) widget with a label. You want to update the button's label based on the user's input. By using the reactive programming, the user types into the Input widget, and the label of the Button updates in real time to reflect the current user input. You can also check out the below video to understand how this works in a more visual way.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="34G1sCaRnvI" title="How to set properties in widgets?" caption="How to set properties in widgets?" />

> Consider another scenario, where you're building a dashboard for managing product inventory information, and you want to include an `Edit` mode for updating the values. In this scenario, you don't want to allow users to make changes when `Edit` mode is off. You only want to enable the changes after the user clicks the `Edit` button and save the changes after user clicks the 'Save' button. There are many Input widgets for handling the product data and two buttons for switching `Edit` mode on and off.

Author: This is an existing use case. (I did shorten it). Do we want to shorten it further?

Widgets provide fields that you can use to bind and display data or trigger an action. Based on this, the properties are categorized as either sync or async.

#### Sync fields

Sync fields are properties that expect input or data in the properties pane. These fields are updated immediately when the data changes.

![Input widget - Sync Fields](</img/Writing_Code__Creating_Workflows__Sync_Fields__Input_Widget.png>)

For example, when you add an Input widget to the canvas, properties such as `Max Characters`, `Regex`, `Error Message`, and others expect input and are considered as Sync Fields.

#### Async fields

Async fields are properties that can trigger an action or perform an operation. They're updated as soon as the data is received.

![Input Widget - Async Fields](</img/Writing_Code__Creating_Workflows__Async_Fields__Input_Widget.png>)

For example, the properties like `OnTextChanged` and `OnSubmit` of an input widget are considered async fields. You can use these properties to define an [action](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions) or perform and operation like [API or Query](/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database#running-a-query) execution.

> #### Async function data in a sync field

Author: This I've kept as data because the video also talks about data and users also want to use the data generated by queries/API/JA Objects.

> #### Async function data in a sync field

Reviewer: @jnikhila Something is off about that heading. Can we at least update it to 
```suggestion
#### Display async function data in a sync field
```

> When working with data in Appsmith, it's important to understand how to use async functions in sync fields. Asynchronous functions can be a powerful tool, but they can also be a source of errors if not used correctly. For more information, see [How to use data from async functions in sync fields](/learning-and-resources/how-to-guides/how-to-use-data-from-async-functions-in-sync-fields).

Reviewer: @jnikhila i think you missed this . And I still feel we should add the video here so that the user can quickly go over and then if they want to read in detail they can go to the how to guide. You can keep the video there too

> #### Trigger actions on events

Author: On second thought, should we keep it Trigger Actions as heading.

> #### Trigger actions on events

Reviewer: Hey the heading here should be outside Fields section and also I accidently put A in actions

[Actions](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions) in Appsmith are predefined functions that allow you to perform specific tasks in response to user interactions or other events in your app. 

> They can be triggered by binding them to events, such as a button click. For example, you want to execute a API on button click and show a success message on the successful execution of the API. You can bind to invoke [showAlert()](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions/show-alert) function on the `onClick()` event for `onSuccess` attribute, as shown below:

Author: Rephrased as below - You can trigger actions by binding them to Events(Async fields). For example, you want to execute a query on a button click and show a success message after the query has been executed. You can bind [showAlert()](/reference/appsmith-framework/widget-actions/show-alert) function on the `onSuccess` callback for the `onClick()` event. (We are already talking about the button's click. So, IMO we should repeat it as `button's onClick event`.)

```javascript
showAlert("Data saved successfully.");
```

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="tjJIDkoCyQE" title="Global Functions" caption="Global Functions"/> 

You can only use the **global actions** provided out-of-the-box by Appsmith in the **async** **fields**.  

> ##### Handle success or error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Handle query success or error
```

> When configuring API and query executions, it's important to provide feedback to the user about the outcome of the action. This can be done by displaying success messages when an action is completed successfully or error messages when there are issues with the execution.

Reviewer: note that this is not just to provide feedback or messages. The onSuccess or onError callback can be used for performing any action/operation. so suggesting to remove this para.

Author: It's just an example. Reworded that.

> <VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="4aEMFU1r1yg" title="Setup Success or Error messages" caption="Setup Success or Error messages"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="4aEMFU1r1yg" title="Setup Success or Error messages" caption="Handling query success or error"/>
```

> You can configure the action to be performed once a query returns with a success or an error. The success or error returned by the API or query can be determined by the HTTP status code or the query response status. These status code are bound to `onSuccess` and `onError` attributes of events and available in property pane to be setup for showing informative messages to end users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the action to be executed once a query returns with a success or an error. The success or error returned by the query can be determined by the HTTP status code or the query response status.
```

Author: @danciaclara - Why do we need to remove this - it gives developers an understanding how the callbacks are tied up to the properties available in property pane.

Reviewer: @jnikhila Apologies. I think I may have misunderstood the context there. Can we modify it a little

> You can configure the action to be executed once a query returns with a success or an error. The success or error returned by the query can be determined by the HTTP status code or the query response status.  These status codes can be bound to the `onSuccess` and `onError` callback for showing informative messages to end users.

Author: The info we are providing is that when a query or API returns a HTTP status code say 200 - then that Status code is bound to `onSuccess` and this callback can be used to show the infromative message. Similarly, it's configured to handle HTTP error code generate by API/Query and in which case the `onError` can be used to show the message.

> You can also choose to write custom JavaScript code by enabling the `JS` label next to event, and add the code you wish to trigger on success or when an error is generated, as shown below:

Reviewer: Should we be talking about the JS label here?  I see that we are introducing it in complex workflows in the section below

Author: As discussed, we are keeping this as is.

The GUI is limited to a single `onSuccess` or `onError` callbacks, while the underlying framework has no limitation. To write complex workflows that can't be accommodated in the GUI, you can enable JavaScript by clicking the JS label next to the event name. 

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="rlk5c0HWW5o" title="Write Custom Code using JS label" caption="Write Custom Code using JS label"/>

You can also configure actions using the GUI and then click the JS icon next to the event/property to view the JavaScript equivalent of the configuration. This can serve as a starting point and help you configure workflows according to your specific needs. This gives you more flexibility and options to configure complex workflows that can't be handled by the GUI alone.

### Conditional execution

> Write custom JavaScript code enables you to handle conditional execution of operations. For example, you wish to execute different queries based on user selection, and bind the data to a table widget. You can do so, by enabling the JS label next to the table data property and add below code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operations can be chained to execute conditionally based on the value of a widget or the response of a query or JS function.  For example, if you wish to show data in a Table widget based on an item chosen in the Select widget, enable the JS label next to the Table Data property and add below code:
```

```javascript
{{
  Choose_operations.selectedOptionValue === 'Fetch Users from DB' ? FetchUsersFromDB.data : FetchUsersFromAPI.data.users
}}
```

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="N_M-i9dnweo" title="Trigger multiple operations based on user input" caption="Trigger multiple operations based on user input"/>

In this scenario, `Choose_operations` is a select widget that allows the user to select various options. Based on the selected option, the corresponding query is triggered and the generated data is displayed in a table widget.

> You can also chain the queries to execute conditionally based on the value of a widget or the response of a Query.

Reviewer: This is the same as above right?

Author: This is for Async fields. Added events to the content.
